docs/TEST_COVERAGE.md, before:

# Unit Test Coverage Report

## Overview
**Total Test Count**: 33 tests  
**Pass Rate**: 100% (33/33 passed)  
**Code Coverage**: High coverage across console and Web API components

## Test Summary

### 1. Constructor Tests ✅
- **Constructor_InitializesSuccessfully**
  - Validates proper initialization of PromptGeneratorAgent
  - Confirms HttpClient and API key are properly stored

### 2. Input Validation Tests ✅
- **EmptyOrWhitespaceInput_ShouldHandleGracefully** (3 variations)
  - Tests with empty string `""`
  - Tests with null value
  - Tests with whitespace `"   "`
  - Validates graceful handling of edge cases

### 3. API Communication Tests ✅
- **GetCompletionAsync_WithValidResponse_ReturnsContent**
  - Mocks successful OpenAI API response
  - Validates content extraction from JSON response
  - Confirms proper message parsing

### 4. Error Handling Tests ✅
- **GetCompletionAsync_WithEmptyChoices_ReturnsUnableToParseResponse**
  - Tests handling of empty choices array
  - Validates fallback error message

- **GetCompletionAsync_WithInvalidJson_ReturnsUnableToParseResponse**
  - Tests handling of malformed JSON responses
  - Validates exception catching and error reporting

- **GetCompletionAsync_WithHttpRequestException_ReturnsApiError**
  - Tests network/HTTP errors
  - Validates graceful error handling with meaningful messages

- **GetCompletionAsync_With401Unauthorized_ThrowsHttpException**
  - Tests authentication failures (invalid API key)
  - Confirms proper handling of HTTP errors

- **GetCompletionAsync_WithNullContent_ReturnsNoResponseGenerated**
  - Tests handling of null message content
  - Validates fallback response

### 5. Request Validation Tests ✅
- **GetCompletionAsync_SendsCorrectApiKey**
  - Validates Authorization header is properly set
  - Confirms API key is correctly transmitted to OpenAI

- **GetCompletionAsync_SendsCorrectRequestFormat**
  - Validates HTTP POST method is used
  - Confirms correct URL endpoint (https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions)
  - Validates request body structure:
    - Correct model: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
    - Correct temperature: 0.7
    - Correct max_tokens: 2048
    - Proper message array with system and user roles

## Console App Coverage (PromptGenerator.Tests)

### Methods Covered

### Covered Methods
✅ `PromptGeneratorAgent()` - Constructor  
✅ `GetCompletionAsync()` - Core API communication and response handling

### Methods with Full Code Path Coverage
- All try/catch blocks
- All JSON parsing paths
- All error scenarios
- All success scenarios

## Code Coverage Breakdown

| Component | Coverage | Details |
|-----------|----------|---------|
| Constructor | 100% | Full initialization tested |
| GetCompletionAsync | 95%+ | Success path, error paths, edge cases |
| JSON Parsing | 100% | Valid/invalid JSON handled |
| HTTP Communication | 100% | Headers, request format, error codes |
| Error Handling | 100% | HttpRequestException, JsonException, null values |
| **Total Coverage** | **~95%+** | Comprehensive test suite |

## Web API Coverage (PromptGeneratorWebApi.Tests)

### Unit Tests
- `PromptGeneratorServiceTests` covers success paths, error handling, and JSON parsing

### Integration Tests
- `/api/generate-prompt` happy path + validation cases
- `/api/health` endpoint

## Testing Approach

### Mocking Strategy
- Uses **Moq** for HttpMessageHandler mocking
- Captures and validates HTTP requests
- Simulates various API responses and failure scenarios

### Test Isolation
- Each test is independent and self-contained
- No external API calls (all mocked)
- Fast execution (12 tests complete in < 1 second)

### Private Method Testing
- Uses reflection to test private `GetCompletionAsync()` method
- Validates internal implementation without breaking encapsulation

## Running the Tests

```bash
dotnet test
```

### Expected Output
```
Test Run Successful.
Total tests: 33
  Passed: 33
     Failed: 0
```

## Future Test Enhancements

To reach even higher coverage levels, consider adding:
1. Integration tests for the full pipeline (RunAsync, AnalyzeProblemAsync, etc.)
2. Performance tests for API response handling
3. Stress tests with large payloads
4. Tests for concurrent requests
5. Console I/O tests for RunAsync method

## Summary

The test suite provides **comprehensive coverage** of:
- ✅ Happy path scenarios
- ✅ Error handling and edge cases
- ✅ API request/response validation
- ✅ Input validation
- ✅ Exception handling

All tests **pass successfully** with **100% pass rate**.

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect frontend and standardize PowerShell commands

docs/TEST_COVERAGE.md, after:

# Unit Test Coverage Report

## Overview
This repository includes unit and integration tests for the console app and Web API projects. Run the tests locally to see the latest pass rate and coverage in your environment.

## Test Summary

### 1. Constructor Tests ✅
- **Constructor_InitializesSuccessfully**
  - Validates proper initialization of PromptGeneratorAgent
  - Confirms HttpClient and API key are properly stored

### 2. Input Validation Tests ✅
- **EmptyOrWhitespaceInput_ShouldHandleGracefully** (3 variations)
  - Tests with empty string `""`
  - Tests with null value
  - Tests with whitespace `"   "`
  - Validates graceful handling of edge cases

### 3. API Communication Tests ✅
- **GetCompletionAsync_WithValidResponse_ReturnsContent**
  - Mocks successful OpenAI API response
  - Validates content extraction from JSON response
  - Confirms proper message parsing

### 4. Error Handling Tests ✅
- **GetCompletionAsync_WithEmptyChoices_ReturnsUnableToParseResponse**
  - Tests handling of empty choices array
  - Validates fallback error message

- **GetCompletionAsync_WithInvalidJson_ReturnsUnableToParseResponse**
  - Tests handling of malformed JSON responses
  - Validates exception catching and error reporting

- **GetCompletionAsync_WithHttpRequestException_ReturnsApiError**
  - Tests network/HTTP errors
  - Validates graceful error handling with meaningful messages

- **GetCompletionAsync_With401Unauthorized_ThrowsHttpException**
  - Tests authentication failures (invalid API key)
  - Confirms proper handling of HTTP errors

- **GetCompletionAsync_WithNullContent_ReturnsNoResponseGenerated**
  - Tests handling of null message content
  - Validates fallback response

### 5. Request Validation Tests ✅
- **GetCompletionAsync_SendsCorrectApiKey**
  - Validates Authorization header is properly set
  - Confirms API key is correctly transmitted to OpenAI

- **GetCompletionAsync_SendsCorrectRequestFormat**
  - Validates HTTP POST method is used
  - Confirms correct URL endpoint (https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions)
  - Validates request body structure:
    - Correct model: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
    - Correct temperature: 0.7
    - Correct max_tokens: 2048
    - Proper message array with system and user roles

## Console App Coverage (PromptGenerator.Tests)

### Methods Covered

### Covered Methods
✅ `PromptGeneratorAgent()` - Constructor  
✅ `GetCompletionAsync()` - Core API communication and response handling

### Methods with Full Code Path Coverage
- All try/catch blocks
- All JSON parsing paths
- All error scenarios
- All success scenarios

## Code Coverage Breakdown

| Component | Coverage | Details |
|-----------|----------|---------|
| Constructor | 100% | Full initialization tested |
| GetCompletionAsync | 95%+ | Success path, error paths, edge cases |
| JSON Parsing | 100% | Valid/invalid JSON handled |
| HTTP Communication | 100% | Headers, request format, error codes |
| Error Handling | 100% | HttpRequestException, JsonException, null values |
| **Total Coverage** | **~95%+** | Comprehensive test suite |

## Web API Coverage (PromptGeneratorWebApi.Tests)

### Unit Tests
- `PromptGeneratorServiceTests` covers success paths, error handling, and JSON parsing

### Integration Tests
- `/api/generate-prompt` happy path + validation cases
- `/api/health` endpoint

## Testing Approach

### Mocking Strategy
- Uses **Moq** for HttpMessageHandler mocking
- Captures and validates HTTP requests
- Simulates various API responses and failure scenarios

### Test Isolation
- Each test is independent and self-contained
- No external API calls (all mocked)
- Fast execution in local environments

### Private Method Testing
- Uses reflection to test private `GetCompletionAsync()` method
- Validates internal implementation without breaking encapsulation

## Running the Tests

```powershell
dotnet test
```

### Expected Output
```
Test Run Successful.
```

## Future Test Enhancements

To reach even higher coverage levels, consider adding:
1. Integration tests for the full pipeline (RunAsync, AnalyzeProblemAsync, etc.)
2. Performance tests for API response handling
3. Stress tests with large payloads
4. Tests for concurrent requests
5. Console I/O tests for RunAsync method

## Summary

The test suite provides **comprehensive coverage** of:
- ✅ Happy path scenarios
- ✅ Error handling and edge cases
- ✅ API request/response validation
- ✅ Input validation
- ✅ Exception handling

All tests **pass successfully** with **100% pass rate**.
